# Engineer Performance Assessment

## Objective

This document outlines processes and principles to apply when evaluating engineering team employees
at CurioSwitch. Such evaluation will be reflected in their compensation and career path.

## Summary

Effective assessment is a critical aspect of growing an organization. Without providing direct,
honest feedback to employees, they cannot know where they are effective and where they can improve,
and there is know way to grow. At the same time, assessment must be fair and balanced, collecting
input not only from managers but also the employees peers and themselves.

At CurioSwitch, we make assessment decisions by first collecting feedback from three parties, the
individual themselves (self review), their peers (peer review), and their manager (manager review).
The assessment questions will be almost the same for these three parties to prevent extra influence
by any one side.

After collecting feedback, management will get together to assign scores to the individual. They
will go through all the reviews and assign a score on a five point scale - the score is with respect
to the employee's job level. The score will be reflected into the employee's compensation and
possibly promotion.

## Goals & Non-goals

### Goals

*   Define a process for collecting information about an employee's performance
*   Define a process for reviewing information to assign an assessment score to the employee
*   Provide guidelines and principles for ensuring assessment is fair, balanced, and improves rather
than hurts the company

### Non-goals

*   Create an evaluation process that can be applied to all organizations. This doc is framed in
engineer evaluation - where possible it should be applied to other orgs but it is not considered
during design.
*   Calculate how assessment affects compensation. This is the job of the finance team, not
managers. Managers should generally just give a rough idea of how much higher it should be or begin
discussions of exit.

## Details


### Information collection

The main objective of information collection is to understand what projects an employee worked on,
how involved were they in each, and where their strengths and weaknesses lie. The question format is
like this:

1) Describe the projects that you worked on this evaluation period.

  - List out up to 5 projects that you worked on during this evaluation period and provide some
  detail on what your role was in the project and what you accomplished. Note that the focus should
  be on the results of your contributions, and not necessarily of the project as a whole.

2) List out three areas of strength that you feel help you work effectively

3) List out three areas of improvements that you feel you can work on to help you work even more
effectively

4) (Manager and peer only, not revealed to employee only managers) Do you think XXX is performing at
the level of a Software Engineer 2? Tell whether they exceed expectations, meet expectations, or
miss expectations and some reasoning for why.

These questions can initially be sent as a Google Doc but should later have some sort of internal
tool. The first step is to ask the employee to pick ~3 peers to review them. Peers should generally
include one person that they directly and actively worked with and one person in their org but on a
different team. Managers can also assign peer reviews themselves. Peers have the option to decline
doing the peer review.

### Manager score

The first assessment of a report will be done by their direct manager. The manager looks at the self
review, peer reviews, and their own review to determine a score from 1-5.

1 - Strongly misses expectations. The employee does not perform the responsibilities of their job
level at all or extremely poorly.

2 - Misses expectations. The employee does perform some responsibilities of the job level but not
enough to feel like a worthwhile member of the team.

3 - Meets expectations. The employee performs the responsibilities of the job level adequately.

4 - Exceeds expectations. The employee exceeds the responsibilities of the job level. This can
include conducting requirements from the next job level or performing requirements of their current
job level with extreme proficiency and output.

5 - Strongly exceeds expectations. The employee strongly exceeds the responsibilities of the job
level, performing all their tasks with extreme output and taking on many of the responsibilities of
the next higher job level.

Rough guidelines for thinking about the scores are

An employee that strongly exceeds expectations 1-2 periods in a review should usually be promoted.
An employee that exceeds expectations for 2-3 periods should usually be promoted. An employee that
misses expectations for 2-3 periods should generally be put on performance review. An employee that
strongly misses expectations 1-2 periods should generally be put on performance review.


### Calibration

After each employee has a score assigned by a manager, all managers get together to compare their
scores and adjust to make sure the evaluation is fair across the organization with minimal manager
bias. Techniques for calibration can include stack ranking and defining rough expectations for the
percentage for each score. However, there are no quotas and scores should not be changed just
because there are too many of one type. As the company grows, there will be more data to allow the
score distribution to better match the actual scoring result.

Scores must be decided unanimously by all the managers reviewing the employee. Unanimous decisions
ensure they are calibrated, not arbitrary.

Things to look out for during calibration is whether any particular manager has a trend towards
giving higher, or lower scores, and making sure no one individual has a particularly
unrepresentative score. This will generally be more important when the number of employees grows.

### Compensation

COO / finance team will take the scores and apply them to employee compensations based on their own
guidelines.

### Sharing

After the review cycle is completed, all reviews will be shared with the employee (except for the
one question that is only for managers).

## Privacy

Reviews are shared as much as possible with employees to provide transparency. Peer reviews are
opt-in, with the expectation that their review will be shared with the employee.

## Alternatives considered

Age-based compensation. It removes the need for any sort of assessment process freeing up managers'
time. But it does not fairly reward high performers and creates a low performing organization.
