# TGIF

This document provides a proposal for running TGIF, a weekly gathering of employees to exchange
ideas and build relationships. TGIF is a simple yet effective way of bringing a team together and
can be effective at any company. Feel free to submit this as-is to get buy-in to start your own
TGIF :)

## Motivation

Teamwork is essential to the success of a company, especially an early-stage one such as a startup.
Encouraging teamwork comes from many angles, and one is to provide opportunities for in-person
communication - meeting face-to-face allows for more personal communication than is possible over
digital tools. The content of this communication is less important than the fact that it allows 
members to directly interact and improve work relationships and friendships. This document describes
TGIF, CurioSwitch's primary means for encouraging office-wide direct communication.

## Goals

- Improve direct communication between employees
- Increase awareness of the going-ons of other teams, and especially upper management
- Provide high transparency, e.g., through candid Q/A sessions

## Non-goals

- Increase communication with non-employees. TGIF is first and foremost an event to support 
employees.
- Provide support for hiring. While this can be done on a best-effort basis, it is not what TGIF is 
for.

## Background

TGIF is an event popularized by Google to increase transparency into upper management and provide a
place for casual communication of employees. In principle, it is held every Friday, and has two
versions - normal TGIF and social TGIF. Normal TGIF's are more common, with a schedule of
presentations given before an hour or two of Hors d'oeuvre with drinks. Social TGIFs have no
presentations and just the food and drinks - while normal TGIF is restricted to full-time-employees,
social TGIF allows all including temps / vendors, and it is also used when there are no topics to
present (rare in headquarters, more common in remote office TGIFs).

## Format

At CurioSwitch, we host a TGIF every week. The schedule is

- 17:30 - up to 30 min of presentations
  - Good for management team to provide a talk about something, like a status update, or an
  interesting movement in the industry, etc.
  - Good for an individual team or two to provide a general update
  - If there are any one-off topics proposed by someone, they should be prioritized
  - All presentations must have few minutes for Q/A - the point of TGIF is transparency, and candid
  Q/A is an essential part of it
  - New hire self-intros

- 18:00+ (or earlier if presentations end earlier) - social
  - Simple / inexpensive food
  - Drinks (alcohol and non-alcoholic)
  - This is not a mandatory meeting - it is common for people to have night engagements, and it's
  mainly just to provide a place for communication if people have time / energy.

A spreadsheet is used to manage proposals for one-off topics. Every Wednesday, a member of the TGIF
team decides the presentation schedule for that week based on the spreadsheet and notifies
presenters. They balance the topics on the spreadsheet vs team / management status updates. If there
are no presentations at all, the presentation session can be dropped for that week - ideally this
does not happen often.

TGIF is in principle an internal event - presentations must be strictly internal-only to allow
sharing of any information, including confidential information. Social activities should also be
internal events - it is important to provide an environment where employees can engage with each
other in a frank way and time spent improving relationships of employees is better spent than time
spent on an external member. Note, for the social part, friends and family of employees are welcome
- improving the relationship with people close to a team member also directly improves the
relationship with the team member themselves and is encouraged.

If inviting an external guest, the rule is that they always give a presentation of some sort. It is
fine to invite external guests on the basis that they will provide value to the employees, and this
presentation is to achieve that.
